.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988, 1989 Oxford Systems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.  The mxload license agreement specifies terms
.\" and conditions for use.
.\"
.\" RELEASE VERSION NUMBER: 10 for 1.0 (12/88)
.pl 10.7i
.nr Vv 10
.ds Mx Multics
.ds Ux \s-1UNIX\s0
.ds Um \s+1\f(BImxload\fP\s0 \fIUser's Manual\fP
.ds Ml \fBmxload\fP
.ds Mf \fBmxforum\fP
.ds Fp \fIForum-path\fP
.\"
.ds ]W Oxford Systems, Inc.
.\"
.TH MXFORUM 1 "1 December 1988"
.SH NAME
mxforum \- Process reloaded \*(Mx Forum meeting(s)
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
mxforum  [\-c \fIcontrol-file(s)\fP]  [\-trux] [\-n]  \*(Fp  [\*(Fp .\ .\ .]
.ft R
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\*(Mf converts a \*(Ux directory containing a \*(Mx Forum meeting, as
reloaded by mxload, into a set of \*(Ux files containing the individual
transactions or into a single \*(Ux file containing all the
transactions.
The \fI.\|forum\fP suffix must be supplied.
Four operations are supported:
\fItable\fP (\fB\-t\fP),
\fIextract\fP (\fB\-x\fP),
\fIunpack\fP (\fB\-u\fP),
and \fIrepack\fP (\fB\-r\fP).
Only one of the four may be specified.
Multiple \*(Fp\fIs\fP may be specified; each is processed independently.
This program works only if the files in the \*(Fp directories have been
reloaded by \*(Ml, in 9bit conversion mode (which is \*(Ml's default
mode of operation for this file type).
.LP
Transactions are written to files in much the same format as they would
be printed with \*(Mx forum's \fBprint\fP request.
A header line gives
the transaction number (in brackets),
the \*(Mx user ID of the transaction's submitter,
and the date and time the transaction was entered.
A second header line gives the subject.
These are followed one or more lines containing the text of the
transaction.
The transaction is completed by a trailer line that repeats the
transaction number (in brackets) and identifies the previous and next
transactions (if any) in its chain.
.LP
If the \fB\-u\fP option or \fB\-x\fP option is given, the transactions
are written one per file.
Each file is named
.\" ---------------- VERSION 10/11
.if \n(Vv=10 ####.TXN, where ####
.if \n(Vv>10 txn#####, where #####
is the transaction number from the Forum meeting.
If \fB\-u\fP is specified, the
original files (named \fIProceedings.#\fP, \fIAttendees\fP, and
\fITransactions\fP) in each Forum directory are deleted, and the
directory is filled with the transaction files.
If \fB\-x\fP is specified, those files are unaffected, and the
transaction files are created in the current directory.
.LP
If the \fB\-r\fP option is given, a single file is created containing
all the transactions in succession, separated by control-L characters.
.\" ---------------- VERSION 10/11
.if \n(Vv=10 This file is named Proceedings in the named Forum directory.
.if \n(Vv>10 This file replaces the named Forum directory, and has
.if \n(Vv>10 the same name including the \fI.\|forum\fP suffix.
The original files (named \fIProceedings.#\fP, \fIAttendees\fP, and
\fITransactions\fP) in each Forum directory are deleted.
.LP
By default, \*(Mf lists the files it is creating or writing into.
The \fB\-n\fP option suppresses this.
If \fB\-t\fP is specified, \*(Mf lists the files it would create as if
they were being listed in brief form by \fBmxmap\fP.
.\"
.\" ---------------- VERSION 10/11
.if \n(Vv=10 .ig Zz
.LP
If the \fB\-a\fP option is specified,
two auxiliary files will also be created.
They are created in the original Forum directory if \fB\-u\fP is
specified, or in the current directory otherwise.
They are named \fINAME.attendees\fP and \fINAME.eligible\fP, where
\fINAME\fP is the name of the Forum directory,
stripped of the \fI.\|forum\fP suffix.
The \fI.\|attendees\fP file contains a list of all the participants
of the Forum meeting with the participation date and last transaction
seen, as would have been produced by
the \*(Mx Forum \fLlist_users\fP request.
The \fI.\|eligible\fP file contains a list of all the Multics users
eligible to participate in the Forum meeting
as would have been produced by
the \*(Mx Forum \fLlist_users -eligible\fP request.
.Zz
.LP
The text of Forum transactions
is assumed to be valid 8-bit ASCII.  If any non-8-bit characters are
discovered, they are truncated.  A single warning message is generated for
each Forum directory in which this situation occurs.
.LP
.\" ---------------- VERSION 10/11
.if \n(Vv=10 .ig Zz
The permissions, owner, and group (owner and group only when \*(Mf is
run by \fBsuper-user\fP) for all resulting files are set
equal to the corresponding attributes of the original \*(Fp directory,
with all the \fBX\fP permission bits set to zero.
.Zz
The modification time for each transaction file is set equal to the time the
transaction was originally entered, or, if a single file is being
generated, the last modification time of the original Forum meeting.
.LP
The \fB\-c\fP option may be used to specify a control file that sets
defaults for unpacking; normally, the standard \*(Ml defaults are
used.
Object statements and most option statements in the control file are
ignored.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fP  \fIcontrol-file\fP
Use \fIcontrol-file\fP to specify options affecting the conversion,
such as access control attributes.
See \*(Um for details of control file syntax.
.\"
.TP
\fB\-t\fP
Specifies the \*Qtable\*U operation:
produce a list of transactions in the Forum meeting, without affecting
the contents.
Only one of \fB\-t\fP, \fB\-r\fP, \fB\-u\fP, and \fB\-x\fP may be
specified.
.\"
.TP
\fB\-r\fP
Specifies the \*Qrepack\*U operation:
replace the contents of the \*(Fp directory with a file containing all
the transactions.
.\"
.TP
\fB\-u\fP
Specifies the \*Qunpack\*U operation:
replace the contents of the \*(Fp directory with individual files
containing each of the transactions.
.\"
.TP
\fB\-x\fP
Specifies the \*Qextract\*U operation:
extract transactions from the \*(Fp directory into individual files
in the current directory.
.\"
.\" ---------------- VERSION 10/11
.if \n(Vv=10 .ig Zz
.TP
\fB\-a\fP
Produce \fI.\|attendees\fP and \fI.\|eligible\fP files.
.Zz
.\"
.TP
\fB\-n\fP
Do not list files as they are created.
.\"
.SH ERRORS
The conversion begins by validating the input directory.  If it appears to be
a Forum meeting, and to have been reloaded with 9bit conversion, the new
file or directory is created, with a unique name.  If the conversion
is successful, the input directory is deleted, and the new file is renamed to
the original directory's name.  If an error occurs, nothing is deleted, and an
error message is printed to identify the offending directory and component
file.
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
\fB/tmp/mx??????\fP
Temporary files used in conversion
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SB TMP
Directory where temporary files will be placed, default is \fB/tmp\fP.
Performance is enhanced by setting
.SB TMP
to a directory in the same filesystem as the objects being reloaded,
as this permits \*(Mf to use \fBrename\fP(2) to put objects in their
final locations, rather than copying the contents.
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\*(Um, \fBmxload\fP(1), \fBmxmap\fP(1)
.\"
