.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 Oxford Systems, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.  The mxload license agreement specifies terms
.\" and conditions for use.
.\"
.pl 10.7i
.ds Mx Multics
.ds Ux \s-1UNIX\s0
.ds Um \s+1\f(BImxload\fP\s0 \fIUser's Manual\fP
.ds Ml \fBmxload\fP
.ds Mp \fI\*(Mx-Path\fP
.ds Up \fI\*(Ux-Path\fP
.ds Bd \fBbackup_dump\fP
.ds As \s-1ASCII\s0
.\"
.ds ]W Oxford Systems, Inc.
.\"
.TH MXLOAD 1 "1 December 1988"
.SH NAME
mxload \- Reload from a \*(Mx \*(Bd tape into a \*(Ux system
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
mxload  [\-c \fIcontrol-file(s)\fP]  [\-g \fImap-file\fP]  [\-blnvx]
\ \ \fIdumpfile\fP  [\*(Mp  \*(Up ...]
.ft R
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\*(Ml reloads \*(Mx files into a \*(Ux system.
The \*(Mx files are usually read from a tape produced by the \*(Mx \*(Bd
command, but may also be read from a disk image of the tape, or a file
produced using the \*(Mx \fBbackup_preattach\fP command.
The device (usually tape) or file from which to read is specified by
the \fIdumpfile\fP argument.
This may also specify a disk file that was previously transferred to
\*(Ux with the \fBdd\fP command or some other means.
.\"
.SS Reload Control Files
.\"
Reloading options are specified by one or more control file (each
named with a \fB\-c\fP option).
The control files are processed in the order they are specified, and
each may contain statements that override built-in \*(Ml
defaults or options specified in earlier control files.
The syntax \fB\-c\ \ \-\fP specifies that a control file is to be read
from standard input.
Details of control file syntax are found in the \*(Um.
.LP
\*(Mx subtrees, files, and directories to be reloaded may be specified
either by statements in a control file or as pairs of command line
arguments (\*(Mp and \*(Up).
Something must always be specified for reloading:
if there are no  \*(Mx object statements in any control files, there
must be at least one pair of \*(Mp and \*(Up arguments, and if no
\*(Mp and \*(Up arguments are specified, at least one control file
must contain a \fBsubtree\fP, \fPfile\fP, or \fPdirectory\fP
statement.
The \*(Mp and \*(Up arguments must always occur in pairs, and the
\*(Mp argument must always be enclosed in quotes (e.g.,
\fB'>udd>\s-1ATMOS\s0'\fP) because it contains greater-than
characters.
.\"
.SS Reload Operation
.\"
\*(Ml includes extensive support for conversion of native \*(Mx data
formats to \*(Ux equivalents.
A summary of the default conversions is:
\*(Mx text segments, containing no non-\*(As characters (actually, no
non-8bit characters; that is, no characters with values greater than
255), are converted (in \fB8bit\fP format) directly to \*(Ux files.
Non-\*(As segments may be converted in a bit-oriented (\fB9bit\fP)
format that translates every eight \*(Mx bytes to nine \*(Ux bytes;
whether this is done varies depending on the segment.
.LP
\*(Mx archives containing only \*(As data are automatically unpacked
into directories containing a separate file for each archive component.
\*(Mx archive segments containing non-\*(As data are, by default,
converted in \fB9bit\fP format to individual \*(Ux files for later
processing with \fBmxarc\fP.
\*(Mx mailbox segments are, by default, converted in \fB9bit\fP format
to individual \*(Ux files for later processing with \fBmxmbx\fP.
\*(Mx message segments are, by default, discarded.
\*(Mx object segments are, by default, discarded.
All other non-\*(As \*(Mx segments are, by default, discarded.
These conversions are described in detail in the \*(Um.
.\"
.SS Reload Maps and Lists
.\"
\*(Ml normally produces a reload map identifying the objects
reloaded, and when finished, a list of any objects that were
requested but not found on the tape.
The map is normally written to standard output, but may be directed to
a single file (the \fB\-g\fP option),
written to individual files in each reloaded directory (the \fB\-l\fP option),
or suppressed altogether (the \fB\-n\fP option).
By default, the map identifies the \*(Mx object (by pathname), its new
\*Ux pathname, how it was converted, and its size, access time, and
modification time.
The \fB\-v\fP option adds additional information about \*(Mx
attributes that may be important on \*(Ux.
The \fB\-x\fP option adds additional information about all remaining
\*(Mx attributes.
The map format is described in detail in the \*(Um.
.LP
In addition to the map, \*(Ml may be directed to produce (using
\fBlist\fP statements in a control file) files listing all the \*(Mx
links (in \fBmxload.link\fP), access control lists (in
\fBmxload.acl\fP), and added names (in \fBmxload.name\fP).
Like the map, these may be produced either in the working directory or
separately in each directory reloaded.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fP  \fIcontrol-file\fP
Use \fIcontrol-file\fP to specify options or list objects to reload.
.\"
.TP
\fB\-b\fP
Brief: suppress warnings about reload object specifications that do
not match any names on the tape.
This is important for multiple tape reloads, since the object list may
specify objects on different tapes.
.\"
.TP
\fB\-g\fP  \fImap-file\fP
Global map: write the \*(Ml reload map to the specified \fImap-file\fP.
By default, the map is written to standard output.
This overrides the \fB\-l\fP and \fB\-n\fP options.
.\"
.TP
\fB\-l\fP
Local map: write an individual reload map, named \fBmxload.map\fP, in
each directory reloaded.
This overrides the \fB\-g\fP and \fB\-n\fP options.
.\"
.TP
\fB\-n\fP
No map: do not produce a reload map.
This overrides the \fB\-g\fP and \fB\-g\fP options.
.\"
.TP
\fB\-v\fP
Verbose map: produce additional attribute information for each object reloaded.
.\"
.TP
\fB\-x\fP
eXtremely verbose map: list all \*(Mx attribute information for
each object reloaded.
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
\fB/tmp/mx??????\\fP
Temporary files used in conversion
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SB TMP
Directory where temporary files will be placed, default is \fB/tmp\fP. 
Performance is enhanced by setting 
.SB TMP
to a directory in the same filesystem as the objects being reloaded,
as this permits \*(Ml to use \fBrename\fP(2) to put objects in their
final locations, rather than copying the contents.
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\*(Um, \fBmxmap\fP(1), \fBmxarc\fP(1), \fBmxmbx\fP(1), \fBmxforum\fP,
\fBmxascii\fP, \fBdd\fP(1)
.\"
